terraform/README.md, before:

# Terraform environment  standup

## Terraform target infrastructure

![Terraform AWS infrastructure](./docs/aws-bastion-host-1.png)

## Terraform Deployments structure

Deployments are location within:

```deployments/[deployment name]```

The main.tf defines the modules that are to actioned and the variables passed to those modules.

## Terraform Module structure

Terraform modules are segregated by Cloud Provider under the modules directory, for example

```modules/AWS```

## Current Terraform Modules

The Terraform modules for AWS ( located under ```modules/AWS/[module name]``` ) action the following:


### Ssh

Refer to [settings documentation](./modules/AWS/Ssh/README-auto.md)

* Uploads Ssh key to be used for all instances

### Bastion

Refer to [settings documentation](./modules/AWS/Bastion/README-auto.md)

* A single bastion host on the public subnet

### Kubernetes

Refer to [settings documentation](./modules/AWS/Kubernetes/README-auto.md)


* One, or more, Kubernetes master nodes on the private network
* One, or more, Kubernetes nodes  on the private network

Cloud init is used to installed k8s software and initialise the cluster.  This is separted into 2 configurations:

* cloud-init-master.cfg - run on master nodes and installs kubelet, kubectl, kubeadm, docker and crictl.  Initialises the cluster
* cloud-init.cfg - runs on nodes and installs kubelet, kubectl, kubeadm, docker and crictl.

### Networking

Refer to [settings documentation](./modules/AWS/Networking/README-auto.md)

* Single Vpc
* 2 subnets, 1 public, 1 private
* An Internet Gateway attached to public subnet
* A NAT gateway

The following routes are defined

* public_route_table - route to internet gateway, associated to public subnet
* private_nat_route_table - route to NAT gateway, associated to private subnet

### S3Storage

Refer to [settings documentation](./modules/AWS/S3Storage/README-auto.md)

* Create S3 bucket
* Create IAM role/policy for k8s hosts to access S3 bucket

### SecurityGroups

Refer to [settings documentation](./modules/AWS/SecurityGroups/README-auto.md)

The following security groups are defined

* bastion-sg - ingress connection over internet from defined cidr, open egress to internet
* controlplane-sg - Allows ingress from public subnet to private subnet (needs to be tighten up), open egress to internet (via NAT gateway)


## Settings

Refer to [settings documentation](./deployments/AWS/README-auto.md) for details on deployment settings required, and defaults provided.

## Remote State

This Terraform code uses remote state storage using S3. This is configured in `terraform/providers.tf` in the `terraform` block. The S3 bucket is assumed to have been created already.

## Running the Terraform Code

To plan:

```bash
make infra-plan
```

To apply:
```bash
make infra-apply
```
To destroy:
```bash
make infra-destroy
```

Commit message:

updates with Ami modules details and minor corrections

terraform/README.md, after:

# Terraform environment  standup

## Terraform target infrastructure

![Terraform AWS infrastructure](./docs/aws-bastion-host-1.png)

## Terraform Deployments structure

Deployments are location within:

```deployments/[deployment name]```

The main.tf defines the modules that are to actioned and the variables passed to those modules.

## Terraform Module structure

Terraform modules are segregated by Cloud Provider under the modules directory, for example

```modules/AWS```

## Current Terraform Modules

The Terraform modules for AWS ( located under ```modules/AWS/[module name]``` ) action the following:


### SshKey

Refer to [settings documentation](./modules/AWS/SshKey/README-auto.md)

* Uploads Ssh key to be used for all instances

### Ami

This modules requires no settings to be provided at this moment

* Identifies current Ubuntu 18.04 LTS AMI Id for region in use

### Bastion

Refer to [settings documentation](./modules/AWS/Bastion/README-auto.md)

* A single bastion host on the public subnet

### Kubernetes

Refer to [settings documentation](./modules/AWS/Kubernetes/README-auto.md)


* One, or more, Kubernetes master nodes on the private network
* One, or more, Kubernetes nodes  on the private network

Cloud init is used to installed k8s software and initialise the cluster.  This is separted into 2 configurations:

* cloud-init-master.cfg - run on master nodes and installs kubelet, kubectl, kubeadm, docker and crictl.  Initialises the cluster
* cloud-init.cfg - runs on nodes and installs kubelet, kubectl, kubeadm, docker and crictl.

### Networking

Refer to [settings documentation](./modules/AWS/Networking/README-auto.md)

* Single Vpc
* 2 subnets, 1 public, 1 private
* An Internet Gateway attached to public subnet
* A NAT gateway

The following routes are defined

* public_route_table - route to internet gateway, associated to public subnet
* private_nat_route_table - route to NAT gateway, associated to private subnet

### S3Storage

Refer to [settings documentation](./modules/AWS/S3Storage/README-auto.md)

* Create S3 bucket
* Create IAM role/policy for k8s hosts to access S3 bucket

### SecurityGroups

Refer to [settings documentation](./modules/AWS/SecurityGroups/README-auto.md)

The following security groups are defined

* bastion-sg - ingress connection over internet from defined cidr, open egress to internet
* controlplane-sg - Allows ingress from public subnet to private subnet (needs to be tighten up), open egress to internet (via NAT gateway)


## Settings

Refer to [settings documentation](./deployments/AWS/README-auto.md) for details on deployment settings required, and defaults provided.

## Remote State

This Terraform code uses remote state storage using S3. This is configured in `terraform/providers.tf` in the `terraform` block. The S3 bucket is assumed to have been created already.

## Running the Terraform Code

To plan:

```bash
make infra-plan
```

To apply:
```bash
make infra-apply
```
To destroy:
```bash
make infra-destroy
```
