doc-templates/README.template.md, before:

<!--

NOTICE: THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED FROM doc-templates/README.template.md

This file is evaled by a quickly cobbled together bash script to replace the variables.

Backticks are imterpreted by bash so use <code> for inline code and <pre> for code blocks.

If you need to include bsah code snippets you will need to change how the templating works.

-->

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/kubernetes-simulator/simulator/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Platforms](https://img.shields.io/badge/Platform-Linux|MacOS-blue.svg)](https://github.com/kubernetes-simulator/simulator/blob/master/README.md)
[![Maintenance](https://img.shields.io/badge/Maintained%3F-yes-green.svg)](https://github.com/kubernetes-simulator/simulator/graphs/commit-activity)
[![Conventional Commits](https://img.shields.io/badge/Conventional%20Commits-1.0.0-yellow.svg)](https://conventionalcommits.org)


# Simulator

A distributed systems and infrastructure simulator for attacking and debugging
Kubernetes: <code>simulator</code> creates a kuberntes cluster for you in your AWS
account; runs scenarios which misconfigure it and/or leave it vulnerable to
compromise and trains you in mitigating against these vulnerabilities.

## Before you start

## Usage

Ensure the [AWS requirements](#aws-configuration) are met and configured.

The quickest way to get up and running is to simply:

<pre>
source <(curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-simulator/simulator/master/kubesim)
</pre>

or clone this repository and run:

<pre>
make run
</pre>

![Simulator startup](./docs/simulator.png)

This will drop you into a bash shell in a launch container.  You will have a
program on the <code>PATH</code> named <code>simulator</code> to interact with.

Refer to [Simulator CLI Usage](#simulator-cli-usage)


## Simulator CLI Usage

### Creating Environment And Lauching Scenario

_Create a remote state bucket for terraform_
<pre>
simulator init
</pre>
You will be asked for a name of a S3 bucket, which must be globally unique as pre AWS standards.  If this does not exist it will be created, else the existing bucket will be used.  This is used to store Terraform state to.

_Create the infra if it isn't there_
<pre>
simulator infra create
</pre>
This will standup the infrastructure, including an initial Kubernetes Cluster

_List available scenarios_
<pre>
simulator scenario list
</pre>
This will list all currently available scenrios

_Launch a scenario (sets up your cluster)_
<pre>
simulator scenario launch node-shock-tactics
</pre>
This will launch your selected scenario.

_Login the environment_
<pre>
simulator ssh attack
</pre>

Once you run <code>simulator ssh attack</code> you will be logged into a container running on the Bastion host.  Upon login an outline of the challenge will be displayed.  In addition, short cuts for logging into the master, or nodes, of the Kubernetes cluster are displayed.  Use these shortcuts to log into the correct starting point as outlined in the challenge.  **Note** that some starting points will require you are on the cluster first to access to starting point.

From within this container you have access to helper command <code>start_task</code>, <code>next_hint</code> and <code>show_hints</code>.

![Bastion container initial login](./docs/bastion.png)

_Start task_
<pre>
start_task 1
</pre>

The <code>start_task</code> command is used to inform the simulator which task you are undertaking, and therefore what hints are available to aid you with that task.

_Accessing hints_
<pre>
next_kind
</pre>

The <code>next_hint</code> command will provide a hint to help you complete the task you have started with the <code>start_task</code> command.

_Viewing all hints that have been requested_
<pre>
show_hints
</pre>

The <code>show_hints</code> command will display all the hints you have requested to that point, in the task you have started.

### Cleaning Up Environment

_Destroy your cluster when you are done_
<pre>
simulator infra destroy
</pre>
Once you have finished you **must** destroy the environment to ensure that no additional costs are incurred.  This command is actioned from within the launch container.

### Scenarios

The following scenarios are available:

<pre>
${scenarios}
</pre>

## How It All Works

### Infrastructure Design

![Terraform AWS infrastructure](./terraform/docs/aws-bastion-host-1.png)

### AWS Configuration

Simulator uses terraform to provision its infrastructure.  Terraform in turn
honours [all the rules for configuring the AWS
CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-configure.html#cli-environment).
Please follow these.

You can provide your credentials via the <code>AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID</code> and
<code>AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY</code>, environment variables, representing your AWS Access Key
and AWS Secret Key, respectively. Note that setting your AWS credentials using
either these (or legacy) environment variables will override the use of
<code>AWS_SHARED_CREDENTIALS_FILE</code> and <code>AWS_PROFILE</code>. The <code>AWS_DEFAULT_REGION</code> and
<code>AWS_SESSION_TOKEN</code> environment variables are also used, if applicable.

https://www.terraform.io/docs/backends/types/s3.html

**All the <code>AWS_*</code> configuration environment variables you have set will be propagated into the container**

### Troubleshooting AWS

- If you get a timeout when running <code>simulator infra create</code> after about 10 minutes, the region you are using
is probably running slowly.  You must run <code>simulator infra destroy</code> and then retry <code>simulator infra
create</code>
- <code>AWS_REGION</code> vs <code>AWS_DEFAULT_REGION</code> - There have been
[some issues](https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go/issues/2103) with the
[Go AWS client region configuration](https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go#configuring-aws-region)
- [Multi-account](https://www.terraform.io/docs/backends/types/s3.html#multi-account-aws-architecture)

### Terraform

Refer to the [simulator terraform documentation](./terraform/README.md) 

### SSH

Simulator whether run in the launch container or on the host machine will generate its own SSH RSA key pair.  It will configure the cluster to allow access only with this keypair and automates writing SSH config and keyscanning the bastion on your behalf using custom SSH config and known_hosts files.  This keeps all simulator-related SSH config separate from any other configs you may have. All simulator-related SSH files are written to <code>~/.ssh</code> and are files starting <code>cp_simulator_</code>

**If you delete any of the files then simulator will recreate them and reconfigure the infrastructure as necessary on the
next run**

### Scenario Launching (perturb)

Refer to the [scenario launch documentation](./docs/scenario.md)

### Launch Flow Sequence

Refer to the [Launch scenario flow documentation](./docs/launch.md)

### Scenario Task Definition

Refer to the [Tasks YAML file Format documentation](./docs/tasks-yaml-format.md)

### The kubesim script

<code>kubesim</code> is a small script written in BASH for getting users up and running with simulator as fast as possible. It pulls the latest version of the simulator container and sets up some options for running the image. It can be installed with the following steps:

<pre>
# cURL the script from GitHub
curl -o kubesim https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-simulator/simulator/master/kubesim
# Make it executeable
chmod a+x kubesim
# Place the script on your path
cp kubesim /usr/local/bin
</pre>

## Development Workflow

### Git hooks

To ensure all Git hooks are in place run the following

<pre>
make setup-dev
</pre>

Development targets are specified in the [Makefile](./Makefile).

<pre>
${make}
</pre>

### Git commits

We follow [the conventional commit specification](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0-beta.4/).
Please ensure your commit messages adhere to this spec.  If you submit a pull request
without following them be aware we will squash and merge your work with a message
that does.

## Architecture

### [Launching a scenario](./docs/launch.md)

### *TODO* [Validating a scenario](./docs/validation.md)

### *TODO* [Evaluating  scenario progress](./docs/evaluation.md)

### Components

* [Simulator CLI tool](./cmd) - Runs in the launch container and orchestrates everything
* [Launch container](./Dockerfile) - Isolates the scripts from the host
* [Terraform Scripts for infrastructure provisioning](./terraform) - AWS infra
* [Perturb.sh](./simulation-scripts/perturb.sh) - sets up a scenario on a cluster
* [Scenarios](./simulation-scripts/scenario)
* [Attack container](./attack) - Runs on the bastion providing all the tools needed to attack a
cluster in the given cloud provider

### Specifications

* [tasks.yaml format](./docs/tasks-yaml-format.md)

* If you need to make changes to the format you should update this documentation.
* Any changes should be accompanied by a bump of the version in the <code>kind</code>
property
* Use the <code>migrate-hints</code> devtool to update the existing scenarios en-masse.
You can make this tool available on your PATH by running <code>make devtools</code>

### Simulator API Documentation

* [Scenario](./docs/api/scenario.md)
* [Simulator](./docs/api/simulator.md)
* [Util](./docs/api/util.md)

## Contributing

### Bugs

If you think you have found a bug please follow the instructions below.

- Please spend a small amount of time giving due diligence to the issue tracker. Your issue might be a duplicate.
- Open a [new issue](https://github.com/kubernetes-simulator/simulator/issues/new) if a duplicate doesn't already exist.
- Note the version of simulator you are running and the command line options you are using.
- Note the version of Kubernetes you are running.
- Remember users might be searching for your issue in the future, so please give it a meaningful title to help others.

### Pull Requests 

We welcome pull requests! 

- Your PR is more likely to be accepted if it focuses on just one change.
- Please include a comment with the results before and after your change. 
- Your PR is more likely to be accepted if it includes tests.
- You're welcome to submit a draft PR if you would like early feedback on an idea or an approach. 
- Happy coding!

Commit message:

refactor: AWS_REGION and AWS_DEFAULT_REGION fixes
This ensures that AWS_PROFILE is always populated, and that .inputrc and .bash_aliases are present on the filesytem.

doc-templates/README.template.md, after:

<!--

NOTICE: THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED FROM doc-templates/README.template.md

This file is evaled by a quickly cobbled together bash script to replace the variables.

Backticks are imterpreted by bash so use <code> for inline code and <pre> for code blocks.

If you need to include bsah code snippets you will need to change how the templating works.

-->

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/kubernetes-simulator/simulator/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Platforms](https://img.shields.io/badge/Platform-Linux|MacOS-blue.svg)](https://github.com/kubernetes-simulator/simulator/blob/master/README.md)
[![Maintenance](https://img.shields.io/badge/Maintained%3F-yes-green.svg)](https://github.com/kubernetes-simulator/simulator/graphs/commit-activity)
[![Conventional Commits](https://img.shields.io/badge/Conventional%20Commits-1.0.0-yellow.svg)](https://conventionalcommits.org)


# Simulator

A distributed systems and infrastructure simulator for attacking and debugging
Kubernetes: <code>simulator</code> creates a kuberntes cluster for you in your AWS
account; runs scenarios which misconfigure it and/or leave it vulnerable to
compromise and trains you in mitigating against these vulnerabilities.

## Before you start

## Usage

Ensure the [AWS requirements](#aws-configuration) are met and configured.

The quickest way to get up and running is to simply:

<pre>
source <(curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-simulator/simulator/master/kubesim)
</pre>

or clone this repository and run:

<pre>
make run
</pre>

![Simulator startup](./docs/simulator.png)

This will drop you into a bash shell in a launch container.  You will have a
program on the <code>PATH</code> named <code>simulator</code> to interact with.

Refer to [Simulator CLI Usage](#simulator-cli-usage)


## Simulator CLI Usage

### Creating Environment And Lauching Scenario

_Create a remote state bucket for terraform_
<pre>
simulator init
</pre>
You will be asked for a name of a S3 bucket, which must be globally unique as pre AWS standards.  If this does not exist it will be created, else the existing bucket will be used.  This is used to store Terraform state to.

_Create the infra if it isn't there_
<pre>
simulator infra create
</pre>
This will standup the infrastructure, including an initial Kubernetes Cluster

_List available scenarios_
<pre>
simulator scenario list
</pre>
This will list all currently available scenrios

_Launch a scenario (sets up your cluster)_
<pre>
simulator scenario launch node-shock-tactics
</pre>
This will launch your selected scenario.

_Login the environment_
<pre>
simulator ssh attack
</pre>

Once you run <code>simulator ssh attack</code> you will be logged into a container running on the Bastion host.  Upon login an outline of the challenge will be displayed.  In addition, short cuts for logging into the master, or nodes, of the Kubernetes cluster are displayed.  Use these shortcuts to log into the correct starting point as outlined in the challenge.  **Note** that some starting points will require you are on the cluster first to access to starting point.

From within this container you have access to helper command <code>start_task</code>, <code>next_hint</code> and <code>show_hints</code>.

![Bastion container initial login](./docs/bastion.png)

_Start task_
<pre>
start_task 1
</pre>

The <code>start_task</code> command is used to inform the simulator which task you are undertaking, and therefore what hints are available to aid you with that task.

_Accessing hints_
<pre>
next_kind
</pre>

The <code>next_hint</code> command will provide a hint to help you complete the task you have started with the <code>start_task</code> command.

_Viewing all hints that have been requested_
<pre>
show_hints
</pre>

The <code>show_hints</code> command will display all the hints you have requested to that point, in the task you have started.

### Cleaning Up Environment

_Destroy your cluster when you are done_
<pre>
simulator infra destroy
</pre>
Once you have finished you **must** destroy the environment to ensure that no additional costs are incurred.  This command is actioned from within the launch container.

### Scenarios

The following scenarios are available:

<pre>
${scenarios}
</pre>

## How It All Works

### Infrastructure Design

![Terraform AWS infrastructure](./terraform/docs/aws-bastion-host-1.png)

### AWS Configuration

Simulator uses terraform to provision its infrastructure.  Terraform in turn
honours [all the rules for configuring the AWS
CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-configure.html#cli-environment).
Please follow these.

You can provide your credentials via the <code>AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID</code> and
<code>AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY</code>, environment variables, representing your AWS Access Key
and AWS Secret Key, respectively. Note that setting your AWS credentials using
either these (or legacy) environment variables will override the use of
<code>AWS_SHARED_CREDENTIALS_FILE</code> and <code>AWS_PROFILE</code>. The <code>AWS_DEFAULT_REGION</code> and
<code>AWS_SESSION_TOKEN</code> environment variables are also used, if applicable.

https://www.terraform.io/docs/backends/types/s3.html

**All the <code>AWS_*</code> configuration environment variables you have set will be propagated into the container**

### Troubleshooting AWS

- <code>AWS_REGION</code> is prioritised over <code>AWS_DEFAULT_REGION</code>, but if the former is empty it will be set to the same value as <code>AWS_DEFAULT_REGION</code>
- If you get a timeout when running <code>simulator infra create</code> after about 10 minutes, the region you are using
is probably running slowly.  You must run <code>simulator infra destroy</code> and then retry <code>simulator infra
create</code>
- [Multi-account](https://www.terraform.io/docs/backends/types/s3.html#multi-account-aws-architecture)

### Terraform

Refer to the [simulator terraform documentation](./terraform/README.md) 

### SSH

Simulator whether run in the launch container or on the host machine will generate its own SSH RSA key pair.  It will configure the cluster to allow access only with this keypair and automates writing SSH config and keyscanning the bastion on your behalf using custom SSH config and known_hosts files.  This keeps all simulator-related SSH config separate from any other configs you may have. All simulator-related SSH files are written to <code>~/.ssh</code> and are files starting <code>cp_simulator_</code>

**If you delete any of the files then simulator will recreate them and reconfigure the infrastructure as necessary on the
next run**

### Scenario Launching (perturb)

Refer to the [scenario launch documentation](./docs/scenario.md)

### Launch Flow Sequence

Refer to the [Launch scenario flow documentation](./docs/launch.md)

### Scenario Task Definition

Refer to the [Tasks YAML file Format documentation](./docs/tasks-yaml-format.md)

### The kubesim script

<code>kubesim</code> is a small script written in BASH for getting users up and running with simulator as fast as possible. It pulls the latest version of the simulator container and sets up some options for running the image. It can be installed with the following steps:

<pre>
# cURL the script from GitHub
curl -o kubesim https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-simulator/simulator/master/kubesim
# Make it executeable
chmod a+x kubesim
# Place the script on your path
cp kubesim /usr/local/bin
</pre>

## Development Workflow

### Git hooks

To ensure all Git hooks are in place run the following

<pre>
make setup-dev
</pre>

Development targets are specified in the [Makefile](./Makefile).

<pre>
${make}
</pre>

### Git commits

We follow [the conventional commit specification](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0-beta.4/).
Please ensure your commit messages adhere to this spec.  If you submit a pull request
without following them be aware we will squash and merge your work with a message
that does.

## Architecture

### [Launching a scenario](./docs/launch.md)

### *TODO* [Validating a scenario](./docs/validation.md)

### *TODO* [Evaluating  scenario progress](./docs/evaluation.md)

### Components

* [Simulator CLI tool](./cmd) - Runs in the launch container and orchestrates everything
* [Launch container](./Dockerfile) - Isolates the scripts from the host
* [Terraform Scripts for infrastructure provisioning](./terraform) - AWS infra
* [Perturb.sh](./simulation-scripts/perturb.sh) - sets up a scenario on a cluster
* [Scenarios](./simulation-scripts/scenario)
* [Attack container](./attack) - Runs on the bastion providing all the tools needed to attack a
cluster in the given cloud provider

### Specifications

* [tasks.yaml format](./docs/tasks-yaml-format.md)

* If you need to make changes to the format you should update this documentation.
* Any changes should be accompanied by a bump of the version in the <code>kind</code>
property
* Use the <code>migrate-hints</code> devtool to update the existing scenarios en-masse.
You can make this tool available on your PATH by running <code>make devtools</code>

### Simulator API Documentation

* [Scenario](./docs/api/scenario.md)
* [Simulator](./docs/api/simulator.md)
* [Util](./docs/api/util.md)

## Contributing

### Bugs

If you think you have found a bug please follow the instructions below.

- Please spend a small amount of time giving due diligence to the issue tracker. Your issue might be a duplicate.
- Open a [new issue](https://github.com/kubernetes-simulator/simulator/issues/new) if a duplicate doesn't already exist.
- Note the version of simulator you are running and the command line options you are using.
- Note the version of Kubernetes you are running.
- Remember users might be searching for your issue in the future, so please give it a meaningful title to help others.

### Pull Requests 

We welcome pull requests! 

- Your PR is more likely to be accepted if it focuses on just one change.
- Please include a comment with the results before and after your change. 
- Your PR is more likely to be accepted if it includes tests.
- You're welcome to submit a draft PR if you would like early feedback on an idea or an approach. 
- Happy coding!
